CREATING A DATABASE AND COLLECTION IN MONGODB:-
1. Login into MongoDB Atlas.
2. From the cluster0 click on the Connect option.
3. Choose the developer tools option and therespective connection string.
Using MongoDB Compass:
1. Launch MongoDB Compass.
2. In the connection dialog, paste your MongoDB connection string and click "Connect".
3. Once connected, click on the "Create Database" button in the left sidebar.
4. Enter “first_database” as the database name.
5. Enter “products” as the collection name.
6. Click "Create Database".
7. Import the productdata.json file from the folder so that the documents are transferred into
the collection named “products”.
8. “first_database” is listed in the databases, with “products” as a collection under
it.
Using MongoDB Shell:
1. Launch the terminal.
2. Paste the connection string copied from Atlas for shell.
3. Enter the password.Now the terminal acts as a mongoDB shell.
4. Use the use command to switch to the new database ”first_database” (this will
create the database if it doesn't already exist):
use first_database
5. Insert a document into a new collection “products” to create it:
db.products.insertOne({ name: "sample product" })
6. List all databases to verify the new database using show dbs.
7. Switch to the new database and list collections:
use first_database
show collections
Using VS Code:
1. Install the MongoDB extension for VS Code from the Extensions Marketplace.
2. Click on the MongoDB icon in the Activity Bar on the side of the window.
3. Click on "Connect" and paste the MongoDB connection string to connect to your
MongoDB instance.
4. Right-click on the connection and select "Create Database".
5. Enter first_database as the database name.
6. Right-click on the newly created “first_database” database and select "Create
Collection".
7. Enter “products” as the collection name.
8. The new database “first_database” and collection ‘products” should now appear
in the MongoDB view in VS Code.
9. Insert the document(s) in the collection using insertOne or insertMany query.
db.getCollection('products').insertMany({....});
